# CS231n-Project
This was my final project for the class CS231n offered by Stanford University.

Authors: Matthew Kaplan (mkaplan1@stanford.edu), Avery Rogers (averyr@stanford.edu)

Here is a breakdown of the notebook:
MK AR ADE20k Models Final PDF.pdf
--> This is a PDF version of the main notebook central to our project. It includes the development, training, and deployment of the models discussed.

ade20k_scene_parser.py
--> This is a Python script written from scratch by Kaplan and Rogers designed to pull training, validation, and test indices from the ADE20k Dataset for a select number of scenes. It also saves a dictionary mapping scenes to indicies and a dictionary mapping indices to scenes for classification purposes.

ade20k_starter.ipynb
--> This was a starter notebook provided by Zhou et al (see citation below), which we made modifications to. This notebook helped us discover how to parse through the dataset, obtaining scene labels and the segmentation mask.

final_ade20k_models.ipynb
-->  IMPORTANT: This is the core notebook to our project. In this notebook, we create, train, validate, and deploy all the models discussed in our final writeup report.

get_ade20k_data.py
--> This is a Python script written from scratch by Kaplan and Rogers which loads the saved numpy array files containing the training, validation, and test sets for the scenes, segmentation masks, and raw images. See the ade20k_scene_parser.py and load_ade20k_data.py Python scripts for more on the processing and development of these arrays.

load_ade20k_data.py
--> This Python script written from scratch by Kaplan and Rogers takes the indices generated by the ade20k_scene_parser.py and saves the resulting training, validation, and test sets with raw images, segmentation masks, and scene labels for use in the final_ade20k_models.ipynb notebook.

utils_ade20k.py
--> This script provided by Zhou et al. (see citation below) provides helpful util functions to parse through the ADE20k dataset.


The ADE20k Dataset, plus the ade20k_starter.ipynb, and utils_ade20k.py scripts courtesy of:
Scene Parsing through ADE20K Dataset. Bolei Zhou, Hang Zhao, Xavier Puig, Sanja Fidler, Adela Barriuso and Antonio Torralba. Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2017.
